I hate winter it's cold it's
great it gets dark so dang early
turns out your body hates it too
hey guys Julia here for dnews
winter is rock for those of us
who live in cold climates as the
windshield dips below zero
degrees you ask yourself why do
I live somewhere where the air
hurts my face but it's not just
the cold that's rough on our
bodies it's the lack of sunlight
to almost all living things have
a circadian rhythm that changes
with light from sleep cycles
hibernation light regulates most
of life on earth the earth is
tilted at a comfortable 23.5
degrees
this means that at some parts of
the year the northern hemisphere
leans slightly closer to the Sun
and other parts of the year the
southern hemisphere gets a
little cozier with his son and
with that it means the amount of
light that reaches your little
section of the planet changes
throughout the year those gray
skies and fading evening light
can have profound changes on
your body the change in light
can cause problems like seasonal
affective disorder a condition
which brings about a low mood as
levels of sunlight induced
vitamin D drop but there's a few
other lesser-known effects of
less sunlight and a study
published in the journal drug
metabolism and disposition
researchers found how less
sunlight changes how your body
metabolizes medication they
focused on two types of immune
suppressing drugs take your
limits and Cyril limits
basically the more vitamin D the
more an enzyme cyp3a4 is
produced the more of this enzyme
the faster the drugs are
metabolized well the study
focused on just these two
medications the researchers
think that these results may be
true for other types of
medications so the study
suggests that sunlight could
affect your sensitivity to
certain drugs and another study
from the American College of
Cardiology found that
cholesterol levels vary from
season to season and a large
study of over 2.8 million adults
researchers from Johns Hopkins
ciccarone center for the
prevention of heart disease and
that for many people cholesterol
levels seem to be higher in the
winter the researchers think
that less sunlight plays a role
in these rising levels as we are
exposed to less light during the
winter because of staying inside
or shorter days we get less
vitamin D another study
published in the journal
menopause found a link between
more vitamin D and lower
cholesterol levels so with less
vitamin D cholesterol levels
might ride
but even though more research is
needed here there's other
evidence that shows how your
body takes a whopping in the
winter so much so that it
affects your jeans one study
published in the journal Nature
communications found that around
twenty three percent of human
genome expression changes from
season to season mostly to boost
your immune system this time of
year is prime cold and flu
season so to fight off
infections your body switches on
certain pro-inflammatory genes
or DNA is made up of two strains
that wrap around each other in
the famous double helix
structure to get even more
compact and tiny that DNA is
wrapped around little proteins
called histones think about
thread is wrapped around a spool
that's kind of what his toes
look like when DNA needs to be
translated to make proteins
these histones unraveled to let
out a little bit of DNA at a
time for which histones unravel
when depends on various
influences in this case it's
seasonal influences probably
again the amount of sunlight and
the participants went through
winter months no matter what
hemisphere they were in a lack
of sunlight seem to activate
these pro-inflammatory jeans and
like we know from other g news
episodes inflammation while I
can help us fight off some
infections too much can also
harm our health leading to heart
disease diabetes or
stress-related mental health
issues which interestingly the
authors think this inflammation
could also be another visit for
more cardiovascular deaths in
the winter but if you live
somewhere where there isn't a
winter your immune system is
impacted by other kinds of
seasonal changes and this study
the researchers found that those
who live in Gambia have seasonal
peaks correlated with the rainy
season which is June october
when infectious diseases seem to
be more prevalent so happy
winter to everybody who's in it
enjoy your body's changes i hope
this season brings you for joy
that it brings cardiovascular
psychiatric or inflammatory
issues or maybe if you wait long
enough climate change could take
away our season starting with
fall to find out more about the
end of autumn trace has the
scoop in this episode right here
the warmer fall of the future
will cause tree's leaves to stay
green or longer and then drop
early shortening how much time
we can actually enjoy it
Plus temperature shifts let more
insects move north attacking
trees that may not have been
exposed to them in the past
are you a fan of winter love to
build snowmen in the
was an outdoors are you a curl
up by the fire with a good but
kind of person
tell us your thoughts down in
the comments below don't forget
to hit those like and subscribe
button so you don't miss a
single episode of dnews